Young adult Ailey readers, The Hound of the Baskervilles, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, copyright
Ailey 2010 Chapter 1 James Mortimer comes to Baker Street
Mr Sherlock Holmes was at the breakfast table. I was by the fire. I had a walking stick in my hand.
It was a stranger's stick. Yesterday a stranger came to the house when Holmes and I were out.
The stranger left his stick. There was some writing on it to James Mortimer MRCS
from his friends of the CCH 1884. Who is the stick Watson?
But you can't see me. How do you know what I'm doing?
I can see your reflection in the window, said Holmes. But tell me Watson, what do you think of our
visitor? We didn't meet him, so his stick is an important clue for us. What do you think?
I think, I said, that Mortimer is a successful doctor. I know that from the letters MRCS,
only a doctor can use those letters. He's quite old and he's probably a country doctor. He walks
a lot because I can see that Dr Mortimer uses this stick a lot. Excellent, said Holmes.
Then we have friends of the CCH. A club, I think. Perhaps he helped them and they gave him the stick.
Congratulations Watson. However, Holmes continued, I'm sorry, but most of your ideas are wrong.
Wrong? Well, he's a country doctor and he walks a lot, you're right. But I think the
CCH is probably Charing Cross Hospital, not a club. I also think he's a young doctor.
He left the hospital and went to work in the country. The stick was a present when he left
the hospital. Then, of course, he has a dog. Look at the stick. His dog carries it.
I laughed. I looked in my medical dictionary. Here he is. Mortimer, James. MRCS 1882,
Grimpen, Dartmoor, Devon. Doctor from 1882 to 1884 at Charing Cross Hospital.
See you, Watson? A hospital, not a club. But you're right. He is a country doctor.
And the dog? The dog is black and white. But Holmes, please, how can you possibly know that?
Well, I can see the dog outside the window. And here is Doctor Mortimer now. But what does he want?
Come in. Our visitor was tall and thin with a long nose. He wore glasses. He was very happy
to see us. And very happy to see his stick.
Thank you. He said as Holmes gave him his stick. And this was a present when I left Charing Cross
Hospital. Are you Mr Sherlock Holmes? Yes. And this is my friend, Doctor Watson. I'm very pleased
to meet you. You are very interesting. You have a very beautiful skull. You have an excellent
Dolicoscephalic skull. Dolicoscephalic. That's a very interesting word. You know a lot about skulls.
You clearly love your work, said Holmes. Please, sit down. So, why did you come here yesterday?
Why are you here again today? You didn't come to look at my skull, I'm sure.
No, I have an interesting problem and I need your help. I've got a document in my pocket.
I saw it when you came in, said Holmes. It's an old one, probably about 1730. But how do you know that?
You love your work and I love mine. All good detectives can look at a document and give it a date.
Am I right? To ten or fifteen years? Yes. The date on the document is 1742.
It's a Baskerville family document. My friend and patient Charles Baskerville gave it to me
before he died. He wanted me to look after it. This document was very important to him.
He was very superstitious. It's about the curse of the Baskerville family. Can I read it to you?
Holmes sat back in his chair and closed his eyes. He looked bored. Dr Mortimer began.
Baskerville Hall 1742 to all Baskevilles. Read this story carefully. Do what it says.
This happened in 1647 when Hugo Baskerville lived at Baskerville Hall. He was a very bad man.
One day he kidnapped a young girl from her home. He took her to a room upstairs but she escaped.
She ran out of the house and ran and ran across the moor. Hugo was very angry. He followed her with
his dogs. His friends followed too but Hugo was very fast. When Hugo's friends found the girl
she was dead. They saw Hugo's dogs and they saw Hugo's body. He was dead too.
His friends also saw a large black animal in the distance. It was the killer. It was a dog
but it wasn't an ordinary dog. It was a strange and terrible hound.
Many of our family die in strange and terrible ways. This hound follows the Baskerville family.
This is why I'm writing this story. I must tell you, never go out on the moor at night.
Dr Mortimer finished the story. Then Dr Mortimer took out a newspaper report from his pocket.
Holmes looked bored again. Now Mr Holmes, here is something from the Dartmoor Chronicle of May
the 14th this year. It's about Charles Baskerville and the story of his death.
Sir Charles Baskerville from Baskerville Hall died on May the 4th. He only lived here for
two years but people liked him very much. He worked in South Africa, made a lot of money
and then he returned to Devon. He helped a lot of people here.
People are talking about the curse of the Baskervilles and the story of the hound.
But the facts are simple. His servants, Mr and Mrs Barrymore and his doctor, Dr James Mortimer,
all say that he had a weak heart. The post-mortem showed that this was true.
Barrymore told our journalist about the night of May the 4th. Sir Charles wanted to go to London
on the morning of May the 5th. After dinner he went for a walk. He always went out before bed
to smoke. He didn't return. At twelve o'clock I was worried so I went to look for Sir Charles.
I followed his footprints. There were a lot of footprints by the gate to the moor.
Then the footprints went to the end of the path.
There is one strange fact from Barrymore's story. After the moor gate the footprints were
different. Sir Charles walked on tiptoe. Sir Charles' relative, Mr Henry Baskerville,
is in Canada. All of us at the Dartmoor Chronicle hope to see him here soon.
We hope he can continue Sir Charles' good work.
Dr Mortimer put the newspaper back in his pocket.
Those facts are public, Mr Holmes. There are other facts too. Not many people live on the moor.
The houses are all quite far apart. The only educated men are Mr Franklin of Laughter Hall
and Mr Stapleton. He is a naturalist. But the people who live near each other spend a lot of
time together. I spend a lot of time with Sir Charles. His stories about South Africa were
very interesting. I was also his doctor. He believed in the curse of the hound of the
Baskervilles. He was terrified of it. He often heard the howl of a dog at night.
One evening I went to his house. When I arrived I saw him at the door.
His face was white. He looked terrified. I followed his eyes and saw a large black
animal. It was the size of a small cow. I saw it clearly. It was something bad,
something supernatural. Sir Charles' fear of the family curse was bad for him.
I suggested a very long visit to London. He needed to rest.
On the night of Sir Charles' death Barry Moore called me. I also followed the footprints down
the path. I saw Barry Moore's footprints too. Then, near the body, I saw other footprints.
Barry Moore didn't see them. But I did.
Were they a man's footprints or a woman's? Said Holmes. Dr Mortimer spoke very quietly.
Mr. Holmes, they were the footprints of a gigantic hound.
Why didn't Barry Moore see the footprints? They weren't near the body.
What was the weather like that night? It was cold, but it didn't rain.
Can you describe the path? There are trees on each side. There is a gate on the left of the
path. It goes out to the maw. So, can you only get to the path from the house or from the gate?
Yes, I see. Were the footprints on the left of the path too? Yes, they were.
Very interesting. And was the gate closed? And is it very high?
Yes, it was closed and locked. But it's not very high. It's easy to climb over it.
Did you see any footprints by the gate? I'm not sure. I think I only saw Sir Charles' footprints.
There were a lot of them. I know he was there for about ten minutes.
How do you know that? There was a match and part of a cigarette. He smoked a cigarette there.
Excellent. Congratulations. You're a detective too.
So, you want me to investigate Sir Charles' death?
Not really. I think Sir Charles died of fright. My problem is with Sir Henry Baskerville.
He arrives at Waterloo station at one o'clock today. He's the only heir to Baskerville Hall.
I think he wants to go to the hall. But I don't think the hall is safe for him.
I don't know what to do. Go to Waterloo station. Meet Henry Baskerville and take him to his hotel.
I need time to think about this. Come here tomorrow at ten o'clock. Brings a Henry with you.
But before you go, one more question. Before Sir Charles' death, how many people saw this
hound on the moor? Three people saw it. Did anyone see it after Sir Charles died? No.
Thank you, Dr Mortimer. A good morning.
Holmes returned to his chair. He looked pleased about this new case.
I need time alone. I need to think Watson. Can you go out until this evening?
Then we can talk about this case together. I spent the day at my club. I returned at about nine o'clock.
So, you went to your club for the day. Yes, but how? He laughed.
Elementary, Watson. It rained all morning and all afternoon. You're completely dry.
Look, your hat and your shoes are dry. So it's clear that you spent the day inside.
As for me, I studied this map of Dartmoor all afternoon.
He put the map on the table and showed me. This is Baskerville Hall. Can you see the trees around it?
And this is the path where Sir Charles died. This is the village of Grimpen.
That's where Dr Mortimer lives. Here is laughter hall. Mr Franklin lives there.
And this is probably Mr Stapleton's house. You can see that they are all quite far apart.
Over here, there are some farmhouses. Then here, 14 miles away, is Prince Town Prison.
All around, there's the moor.
It's a lonely place. Do you think Dr Mortimer is right, Holmes?
Do you think the Hound is a supernatural animal?
And Dr Mortimer thinks that it's supernatural. He believes the family curse.
I believe in facts, Watson, not stories. Our first job is to look for the facts.
Did Sir Charles die because of his heart? Or did someone kill him?
Chapter 2. The letter, the shoes, and the man with the beard.
Well, Watson, you know the results of my work today. What about you?
Did you think about our new case, said Holmes? Yes, I did. I thought a lot about it.
There are some things I don't understand. Why did Sir Charles' footprints change?
Why did he walk on tiptoe? He didn't. He ran. When you run, your footprints change. Sir Charles
ran, Watson. He ran for his life. He was terrified. But what did he run away from?
Now that's the problem. It's strange. He didn't run in the direction of the house.
He ran away from it. Help was that the house? But he ran away.
And why did he wait at the gate? Did he want to meet someone? Sir Charles was old and quite ill.
It was a cold night. It seems strange that he stopped for a long time by the gate.
Remember, a doctor Mortimer told us about the match and the cigarette.
He had time to smoke a cigarette there. 10 minutes is a long time for an ill man.
But he went out every evening. Yes, but I'm sure he didn't wait by the more gate every evening.
He was afraid of the more. But that night he waited there. It was the night before his trip to London.
Ah, Watson. I think I'm beginning to understand something.
Pass me my vial in my friend. Let's wait until our meeting with Sir Henry Baskerville in the morning.
Our visitors arrived at exactly 10 o'clock. Sir Henry Baskerville was a small man with dark eyes.
He was about 30 years old and was strong and healthy. He was a gentleman. But it was also
clear that he liked spending time outside. I'm very pleased to meet you, Mr Holmes.
Can I show you something? It's a strange letter. I got it this morning.
Sir Henry put the letter on the table. The address said Sir Henry Baskerville Northumberland Hotel.
That's very interesting. Did anyone know you were at the Northumberland Hotel, said Holmes?
No, Dr Mortimer and I only decided when I arrived at the station. Hmm, someone followed you.
Holmes looked at the letter. There was only one sentence. Almost all the words were from a newspaper.
You are in danger. Keep away from the more.
Only the word more wasn't from the newspaper.
Very interesting. Have you got yesterday's Times Watson? I gave the newspaper to him.
Yes. Here, can you see, these words are all on the front page. The words in this letter come from the Times.
Dr Mortimer was very surprised. And how did you know which newspaper to look at?
Well, as I said yesterday, we both love our work. You know all about skulls because it's your
special hobby. This is my special hobby. Most newspapers have a style. The Times front page is very obvious.
So, someone cut out this message, said Sir Henry. But why did he write the word more?
Because it wasn't in the newspaper. The word more is unusual. That's why he wrote it.
And another thing, the address is in bad writing. But people who read the Times are usually educated
people. Our writer is an educated man, but he wants to seem uneducated. Why does he want to
hide his writing from you, Sir Henry? Does he think you know his writing? And another thing,
I also think our man wrote this in a hotel. How can you possibly know that, said Dr Mortimer?
You can see that the writer didn't know the pen. The pen and the ink gave our writer some problems.
That's why I think he was in a hotel. Yes. Watson, we must look in the hotel's near Charing Cross.
Somewhere near there, there's a bin. In it, there's a copy of the Times. The words in this letter are
missing from it. Sir Henry, did anyone follow you yesterday? I didn't see anyone.
But a strange thing happened. I lost a shoe. They were new shoes. I bought them yesterday
afternoon. I put them in my wardrobe. This morning, there was only one shoe there.
But why did anybody steal a shoe? And why one shoe? I said,
I know, said Sir Henry. It's very strange. But now you must tell me, why am I here? What's happening?
Tell him, said Holmes. Dr Mortimer read the Baskerville family document and the newspaper report to Sir Henry.
Well, said Sir Henry. Strange things are happening at Baskerville Hall.
And now there's this strange letter. Does someone want to stop me from going to the hall?
I don't know, said Dr Mortimer. Perhaps someone knows the more is dangerous. Perhaps he wants to help you.
Holmes stood up. That's the problem. Is Baskerville Hall safe?
Well, I want to go to my family home, said Sir Henry. No one can stop me.
I need time to think. Come to my hotel at two o'clock. Then I can tell you what I want to do.
Dr Mortimer and Henry Baskerville left our house in Baker Street.
Suddenly, Holmes jumped up. Quick Watson, let's follow them.
We ran outside. We saw them about a hundred yards away. They walked into Oxford Street and then into Regent Street.
They stopped and looked in a shop window. A cab opposite stopped too.
That cab's following them, Watson. Quick, let's see who's in it.
In the cab, I could see a man with a big black beard. But the man saw us and the cab drove quickly away.
Holmes chased it, but the cab was too fast.
It was cab 2704. Did you see the man, Watson? Yes, he had a beard.
I followed Holmes into an office building.
Where's Cartwright, the message boy? Ah, there he is. Cartwright, come here, boy. Bring me a hotel directory.
The boy ran quickly to Holmes.
Now, Cartwright, here are the names of 23 hotels near Charing Cross.
Visit them all. Tell the porters that you want to see the bins from yesterday. Tell them that a client lost an important telegram.
Do you understand? Yes, sir. Cartwright was an intelligent boy.
But you're really looking for a copy of yesterday's times. You're looking for a copy with some words missing.
Go now. And good luck. Now, Watson, let's go to the cab office. I want to leave a message for the driver of cab number 2704.
Then let's go to Sir Henry's hotel.
Sir Henry Baskerville is waiting for you, said the hotel receptionist.
We went upstairs. Sir Henry was there. He was very angry.
Another shoe, he shouted. Why is someone stealing my shoes? Yesterday they stole one of my new brown shoes. This morning they stole one of my old black shoes.
How strange, said Holmes.
We went into Sir Henry's sitting room and we talked about his plans.
Now, Sir Henry, what do you want to do, said Holmes?
I want to go to Baskerville Hall at the end of this week.
I think it's a good idea. You're in danger in London. This morning someone followed you.
Dr. Mortimer was very surprised. We didn't see anyone. Did you see the person?
No, I didn't. But he had a big black beard. Do you know anyone on Dartmoor with a big black beard?
Barrymore. He's such a child's butler. He's got a big black beard. But he's at Baskerville Hall.
Are you sure? Let's check. Sir Henry, you must send a telegram to Barrymore.
Say, is everything ready for my arrival? Say that the telegram must go to Barrymore and only Barrymore.
Ask him to send you an answer. Now, Dr. Mortimer, did Sir Charles leave the Barrymore's any money in his will?
Yes, he left them 500 pounds.
Did they know about this before Sir Charles died?
Yes, they did. Sir Charles often talked about his will.
Sir Charles gave a lot of money to a lot of people. He was a very kind man.
When Sir Charles died, he had nearly a million pounds. Now Sir Henry has a lot of money.
Hmm. Very rich. Very interesting.
And who is Sir Henry's heir? Sir Charles' second brother died when he was young.
Sir Henry here is his son.
Roger Baskerville was Sir Charles' third brother. He was a dangerous man like Hugo.
He had problems with the police, so he went to Central America. He died there.
He didn't marry before he died. Sir Charles' brothers are dead, so Sir Henry is the only heir.
I see. Well, Sir Henry, you can go to Baskerville Hall, but not alone.
I'm investigating something for a famous person, so I can't come myself.
Oh, Watson, you must go. Yes, of course, I said.
We walked towards the door. Suddenly, Sir Henry shouted,
my new shoe. There it is under that chair.
Strange, said Dr Mortimer. We searched this room very carefully before lunch. There wasn't a shoe here then.
Holmes and I went home. In the cab, I thought about the last two days.
First, there was the strange letter. Then, the man with the black beard.
Then, the missing brown shoe and the missing black shoe. Now, the return of the brown shoe.
What did these things mean? Just before dinner, two telegrams arrived.
One was from Sir Henry. Barrymore is at Baskerville Hall, not in London.
The other was from Cartwright. I visited 23 hotels today. Sorry, no times.
Oh, well, said Holmes. No luck there then, but I like difficult cases. Now, who's that at the door?
A man came into the room. Good evening. I got your message. I'm the driver of cab 2704.
Thank you for coming, said Holmes. I want to ask you some questions. What do you want to know?
Tell me about your passenger this morning. He watched this house and then he followed two gentlemen.
The cab driver was surprised. Yes, he did. He knew a lot already, but the gentleman was a detective.
He told me his name. Holmes looked at me and smiled. Excellent. What was his name?
His name, said the cab driver, was Mr. Sherlock Holmes.
We were both very surprised, but Holmes continued, excellent again. Now, tell me, where did you go?
He stopped me at half past nine in Trafalgar Square. Then we went to the Northumberland Hotel.
Two gentlemen came out. They took a cab. We followed it. It stopped in Baker Street near here.
We waited for about an hour and a half. Then they came out. We followed them.
Then, suddenly in Regent Street, my passenger said, quick, take me to my hotel. So that's what I did.
I see. And can you describe Mr. Sherlock Holmes? He was about 40 years old. He had a black beard and
a pale face. He was quite tall, a bit like you, sir. Thank you very much. Here's some money for you.
The cab driver went away. He looked very, very pleased.
No luck there, either, said Holmes. Watson, this is a dangerous case. I'm worried about your visit
to Dartmoor. I need you to go to Baskerville Hall, but you must be very careful.
Chapter Three, The Prisoner on the More
On Saturday, we met Baskerville and Mortimer at the station.
Did you have a good week? Said Holmes. Did anyone follow you?
No. No one followed us. Said Dr. Mortimer.
And did you find your shoes, Henry? No, I didn't. Very interesting.
Well, be careful at the hall and don't go on to the more alone at night.
Holmes then looked at me. Right report to me, Watson, but I only want the facts.
Tell me about Sir Henry's neighbours and about Sir Charles' death. Study the people on the more.
Yes, of course. I see you've got your gun. Good. Always have it with you. Goodbye. And good luck, my friend.
I got onto the train. It was a long journey, but I enjoyed it. I talked to Sir Henry and Dr.
Mortimer, and I played with the doctor's friendly dog. Sir Henry looked out of the window.
He was very interested in the countryside.
I don't know what Baskerville Hall is like. I was only a teenager when my father died.
We lived in a little house on the south coast, and I never visited the hall.
Then, after my father died, I went to Canada. I can't wait to see the hall,
and I can't wait to see the more.
Well, there's the more, said Dr. Mortimer.
Sir Henry looked out of the window. There was the more. He was silent. This was his new home.
I saw he loved it. The train stopped at a small station.
Outside the station, we saw a carriage with two horses. There were also two soldiers with guns.
It was strange. Why were their soldiers here?
Perkins, our driver, took us quickly to Baskerville Hall.
Sir Henry asked lots of questions about the hall and the more. He was like a little boy
excited about his new home. Then, in the distance, we saw a soldier on the hill.
He was on a horse, and he had a gun. He watched our carriage as we passed.
What's this about, Perkins? Said Dr. Mortimer.
There's a prisoner on the moor. He escaped from Princeton Prison three days ago.
The soldiers are watching all the roads and train stations. People are afraid, sir.
Who is this prisoner? It's Selden, the Notting Hill Killer.
Everyone in the carriage was silent. Then, at last, in the distance,
we saw them, the two towers of Baskerville Hall.
Sir Henry looked at the house. It doesn't look very friendly, he said.
Then he smiled. I think it needs more light. Yes, electric light before next year. That's what we need.
A tall man was at the door. A woman was with him. Welcome, Sir Henry. Welcome to Baskerville Hall.
This was Barrymore, the butler, and his wife. They took our bags and we followed them inside.
Well, Sir Henry, I must go. My wife's waiting. Said Dr. Mortimer.
Have some dinner before you go.
No, I must go home. But please call me anytime, night or day.
Thank you, Dr. Mortimer. You're a good friend. Now, Barrymore, show us to our rooms.
Is there any hot water? Can I have a wash? Yes, sir. There's hot water in your rooms.
Thank you, Barrymore. But do you have something to say?
Yes, sir. I'm sorry, but my wife and I want to leave here. We liked Sir Charles very much,
and he gave us a lot of money in his will. The hall is a sad place for us now.
Do you want to leave immediately? No, no. We can wait. Find a new butler first.
Then we can leave. Can I show you your rooms now, sir?
We followed Barrymore upstairs. My room was near Sir Henry's. It was almost next to it.
These rooms were light and cheerful. The rest of the house was old and dark. I had a wash
and changed my clothes for dinner. Then I went into the dining room where I met Sir Henry.
It was a very large room, but it was also old and dark. Pictures of the Baskerville family were
on the walls. They looked at us while we had our dinner. We both felt uncomfortable there.
We didn't talk a lot at dinner.
I'm not surprised my uncle was a nervous man, said Sir Henry. He was all alone in this big dark house.
After dinner, we said good night and went to our rooms. I looked out of the window. I could
see the garden in the moonlight. In the distance, there was the dark, lonely moor. I closed the
curtains and went to bed. It was difficult to sleep. The house was silent.
Then, suddenly in the middle of the night, I heard something. I sat up in bed and listened
carefully. It wasn't far away, and it was certainly in the house.
Someone's crying. I said to myself, it's a woman, and she's crying. Now, why?
The next morning was beautiful. At breakfast, the sunlight filled the room. It was very different
from the night before. We talked happily over breakfast.
Perhaps we were tired last night. That's why this place looked sad. It was probably our imagination.
Now it seems very cheerful. Yes, I answered. But did you hear anything last night? Did you hear a woman?
Yes, I did. And she was very unhappy. She cried and cried. But I thought it was a dream.
Well, it wasn't a dream. I heard it too.
Sir Henry called Barrymore. He asked him about the woman. Barrymore's face went a little pale.
There are only two women in the house, Sir Henry. One is the maid, and she sleeps in the other
part of the house. The other woman is my wife. The sound did not come from her.
But after breakfast, I met Mrs Barrymore. She looked unhappy, and her eyes were red.
So she did cry in the night. But why? And why did her husband lie? Was he horrible to her?
I was interested in Barrymore. He had a big black beard. He found Sir Charles's body.
Was he the man in the cab? Did he follow Sir Henry and Dr Mortimer in London? I needed information.
My first job was to talk to the man at Grimpen Post Office.
Did he give the telegram to Barrymore and only Barrymore?
After breakfast, I walked to the village. It was four miles away. The man at the post office
remembered the telegram very well. My boy, James delivered it, didn't you, son? Yes, father, I did.
And did you give it to Mr Barrymore himself? I asked. Well, he was upstairs, so I gave it to his wife.
Did you see Mr Barrymore? No, sir. I said he was upstairs.
You didn't see him, so how do you know he was upstairs?
What's the problem? Said the boy's father. Mr Barrymore got the telegram. Why are you asking about Mr Barrymore's telegram?
Why didn't he come here to ask about it?
I saw that my investigation was at an end. I walked back along the grey lonely road and I thought.
Perhaps Barrymore was our man in the cab. Was he at Baskerville Hall that day?
According to his wife, he was. But was that true?
Perhaps Barrymore killed Sir Charles. But why? And why did he follow Sir Henry?
Why didn't he want Sir Henry at the hall? I thought about the strange message with the letters
from the Times. Holmes was right. This was a very difficult case.
Then suddenly I heard a voice behind me. I turned and I was surprised to see a stranger.
He was small and thin. He had fair hair. He was about 30 or 40 years old. He had a grey suit
and he had a hat on his head. He also had a butterfly net and a box for his specimens.
You must be Dr Watson, he said. My name's Jack Stapleton. I live at Mary Pitt House.
Please to meet you, I said. You're a naturalist, aren't you? But how did you know my name?
I was at Dr Mortimer's house a moment ago. We saw you pass and he told me your name.
I hope that Sir Henry is well after his journey. Yes, he's very well, thank you.
I'm happy that he's here at Baskerville Hall. Do you know the story of the Baskerville Hound?
Yes, I do. But Sir Henry doesn't believe in the supernatural. He isn't superstitious.
A lot of people around here believe in the Hound. They say they can hear it at night too.
He smiled, but I saw that he was worried. I'm sure that it was the reason for Sir Charles's death.
He was a nervous man and he had a bad heart. Sir Charles believed the curse. But perhaps he
really did see something that night on the path. I don't know. I was very sad about his death.
I liked him very much. So did a dog chase him? Did he die of fright?
I can't think of another reason, can you? At the moment, I haven't got any ideas at all.
And what about Mr Holmes? Has he got any ideas? I was surprised to hear Holmes' name.
Oh, we all know about the famous Sherlock Holmes. So, of course, we all know your name too.
When Dr Mortimer told me your name, I immediately knew it was you.
The fact that you're here means that Mr Holmes is interested in the case.
What does he think about it? I'm sorry. I can't answer that question at the moment.
Does he plan to visit us? He can't leave London. He's working on another case.
What about your investigations? Do you need any help? Please ask me anytime.
I'm here as a friend to Sir Henry. That's all. I don't need any help.
Excellent, said Stapleton. You're right. You must be careful. I'm sorry I asked so many questions.
We reached a small path in the road. I could see a house in the distance.
That's Mary Pit House, he said. Come and meet my sister.
I was pleased. It was a good opportunity to study the neighbours.
It's a beautiful place, the more. I know it well. We only came here two years ago,
just after Sir Charles came. I love walking, so I know them all very well.
The houses over there are prehistoric, Neolithic man lived in them.
And look there. That's the great Grimpen Maya. It looks green and friendly, but it's a terrible
place. It's dangerous when the weather is dry. Now, after the autumn rain, it's almost impossible
to cross it. Every year, people die drying. Every year, 10 or 20 horses die there too.
The poor animals don't understand, but I can go to the very centre of the Maya and return alive.
But why do you want to go to a horrible place like that? Why does anyone? Because it's full of
rare plants and butterflies. How interesting. I like butterflies a lot. Perhaps I can go one day.
Don't be a fool. It's too dangerous. I can get there because I remember some of the rocks and
plants. It's too dangerous for you. Suddenly, we heard the low howl of a dog. It was long and sad.
What's that? I said. The moors are strange place. People say it's the hound of the
Baskavilles. I sometimes hear that sound when I walk out here.
Chapter 4. The Hound of the Baskavilles
I didn't believe the curse of the hound of the Baskavilles,
but, Stapleton, what was that terrible howl on the moor? I asked again.
You're an educated man. You don't believe those stories about the hound.
What could the sound be? What makes a sound like that?
Well, there's a very rare bird. It's called a biton. It makes a very strange sound. That's
possible. Oh, just a moment. What's that? Excuse me, Dr. Watson. I must go. That butterfly.
It's a cyclopides. He ran after the butterfly towards the grimp and mire. Stapleton ran and
jumped, and I watched him get to the island in the centre. He knew the mire very well.
Just then, I heard a person behind me. I turned and saw a woman.
Go back, she said. Go back to London immediately.
But why? I asked. I was very surprised.
I can't explain. Please go back to London. Don't come here again. Now, quiet. My brother's coming.
Hello, Beryl. He said. But I didn't think he was very happy to see his sister.
Hello, Jack. You're very hot, said Miss Stapleton. Yes, I saw a cyclopides and I chased it.
He looked at us both. I see. Now you know, Dr. Watson.
Are you Dr. Watson? Sherlock Holmes, his friend. But I thought you were Sir Henry Baskerville.
She looked a little worried.
We walked to Mary Pit House. It looked dark and sad. We went inside.
I looked out of the window. The only view was of the lonely mall.
Why do they live here? I thought. It's a sad, dark place.
It's a strange place to live, isn't it? Said Stapleton.
I had a school in the north of England. Unfortunately, one winter, some of the boys became ill.
Three of them died. The school closed. I didn't have a lot of money, but I had the money to buy
this place. I like it here. Dartmoor's a good place for my hobby, and my sister likes it here too.
We have our books and we have our studies, and we have our interesting neighbours.
That's right. Isn't it, Beryl? Oh, yes, she said quickly.
Dr. Mortimer is an interesting man. Poor Sir Charles was also a good friend. We knew him well,
and we miss him. I would like to meet Sir Henry, his nephew.
Come to the hall this afternoon, I said. You can meet him then.
I said goodbye and walked across the mall. After about five minutes, I was very surprised to see
Miss Stapleton in front of me. I must be quick, she said. Don't tell my brother. Please forget
everything that I said to you. I thought you were Sir Henry.
I can't forget it. And why must Sir Henry go back to London?
The curse of the Hound. Sir Henry is in danger. Now I must go.
She walked away. I went back to Baskerville Hall. I was worried. I wrote my report to Holmes.
Now I plan to use my reports to Holmes and my diary. They give the reader a complete account of
events. Baskerville Hall October 13th. Dear Holmes, I told you about the prisoner in my last report.
Now I've got more news. The prisoner escaped two weeks ago. Nobody knows where he is.
Where is he finding food? Is he still on the mall?
I'm worried about the Stapleton's in their lonely house. Sir Henry is worried too.
He asked Perkins the driver to sleep at their house. Mr Stapleton said no.
I think Sir Henry likes Miss Stapleton very much. She's a beautiful woman. Almost a warm,
Latin beauty. It's strange that her brother is so cold. He's got a lot of power over her.
She looks at him all the time. She wants to please him. I hope he's kind to her.
He sometimes looks quite hard. Anyway, here are the facts.
Stapleton came to the hall on that first day. The next morning, he showed us the place where
the evil Sir Hugo died in 1647. It was a horrible, lonely place. Sir Henry didn't like it.
Stapleton clearly believes this horrible curse. He believes there's a hound on the mall.
We had lunch at Mary Pit House. Sir Henry met Miss Stapleton for the first time.
They liked each other. Now they see each other every day. They have an invitation for dinner
at the hall tonight. We have an invitation to go there next week. It's strange. But Mr Stapleton
doesn't seem very happy about this. He looks angry when Sir Henry talks to his sister.
Perhaps he can see a lonely life in the future without her. But I think he's selfish to think that.
I also met another neighbour the other day, Mr Franklin of Laughter Hall. He's an interesting
old man with a red face. He likes the stars and the night sky. There's a telescope on the roof of
his house. At the moment, he's looking for the prisoner with it.
Now, I must tell you about the Barrymore's. I told you about the telegram. Was Barrymore
the butler in London that day or was he here? We don't know. Sir Henry decided to ask him about
it. He asked lots of questions. He seemed quite hard with Barrymore. Later in the evening,
Barrymore spoke to Sir Henry. Barrymore doesn't understand why Sir Henry is suspicious.
After this, Sir Henry felt sorry for Barrymore. The next morning, he gave some of his old clothes
to Barrymore. The butler was very pleased.
I'm interested in Mrs Barrymore too. She cries a lot. Is Barrymore a violent man?
Then, last night, I woke up suddenly. Someone was outside my room. I looked out. There was a man
at the end of the corridor. It was Barrymore. He walked very quietly. He didn't have any shoes
on. I followed him. He went into one of the empty rooms. The door was open. I could see the light
from his candle. I looked into the room. Barrymore was at the window with his candle. He watched for
a long time. Then, suddenly, he turned, but he didn't see me. I ran back to my room.
A few minutes later, he passed my door. You only want the facts, Holmes. So there they are.
Baskerville Hall October 15th.
Dear Holmes, here is my next report.
The next morning, I went to the room at the end of the corridor. Its window has an excellent
view of the more. I'm sure that Barrymore is interested in something or someone out there.
After breakfast, I told Sir Henry about it. He wasn't surprised. Sir Henry also hears Barrymore
at night. We're planning to follow him tonight.
After our conversation, Sir Henry decided to go out. I wanted to go with him. He wanted
to go alone. He wanted to meet Miss Stapleton. This was a difficult problem. My instructions
from you are clear, Holmes. I can't leave him alone. But I understood his reasons. He clearly
wanted to be alone with her. I decided to follow him, but at a distance.
I walked quickly towards Merippitt House. At first, I couldn't see Sir Henry at all,
so I climbed a hill. Then, I saw him with Miss Stapleton. Sir Henry tried to kiss Miss Stapleton.
She didn't want him to. Then, I saw another person on the moor. It was Mr Stapleton
with his green butterfly net. He ran towards them and shouted. He seemed angry with them.
Then, he walked away, and his sister followed him.
Sir Henry walked towards the hall. He looked very sad.
I was sorry for Sir Henry, so I went down the hill to meet him.
He was confused about Stapleton. Sir Henry wants to marry Miss Stapleton,
and he can't understand her brother's behaviour. Stapleton says he's sorry and that he's selfish.
He doesn't want his life to change. He asked Sir Henry to wait for three months
before asking Miss Stapleton to marry him.
Now, Holmes, let me tell you about Barrymore.
The first night, we waited in Sir Henry's room until three o'clock. Nothing. We tried again last
night. Just after two o'clock, we heard someone in the corridor. It was Barrymore. He went into
the empty room. We looked in. There he was, with his candle and the window again.
Sir Henry walked into the room. Barrymore went pale. Sir Henry asked Barrymore to explain,
but Barrymore was silent. I took the candle from Barrymore and moved it in front of the window.
After a few seconds, I saw a light on the moor. Someone answered my signal.
Suddenly, we heard a woman's voice and Mrs. Barrymore came into the room. She explained everything.
The man on the moor is her brother, Selden, the escaped prisoner.
She can't leave her brother alone on the moor without help. He needs food.
He shows a light, and Barrymore takes the food to him.
Sir Henry and I decided to get Selden. I got my gun and we went out onto the moor towards the light.
Suddenly, we heard it again. That long, low, horrible howl.
Sir Henry seemed a little afraid. He thought the howl came from the Grimpen mire. He was probably right.
I think Sir Henry was afraid because of the curse. I think he remembered that there were
a hound's footprints next to his uncle's body. We went on in the dark towards the light.
Finally, we arrived, but there wasn't anyone there.
Then we saw Selden in the moonlight. We ran towards him, but he was fast and we couldn't catch him.
He escaped. We turned to go home. Then, a strange thing happened.
On a hill, in front of us in the moonlight, I saw a tall stranger.
The man saw us and went away. I wanted to follow him, but Sir Henry was very tired. We went home.
This morning, we told the soldiers. I hope they can find Selden.
Finish your case quickly, Holmes. We need you here.
Diary entry October 16.
It's a wet, foggy day. Sir Henry seems very unhappy. I'm also worried. I think this place is dangerous.
I don't believe the story is about the hound. I'm not superstitious like Stapleton or Mortimer.
People here say it's a horrible thing to see. I don't think the stories are true,
but I know there's something out there. It howls like a hound, but where is it?
Where can a gigantic dog live on the moor? Where does it find food?
What about the man on the hill last night? Is he the man we saw in London?
A stranger is still following us. I must find out about him. I need an answer to this problem,
but I don't want to tell Sir Henry about it.
This morning Barrymore came to talk to us. He had some important information.
He knew why Sir Charles went to the gate the night he died. Sir Charles had a letter from a woman.
He went to meet her. Mrs Barrymore found a piece of the letter in the fireplace.
It was still possible to read the end of the letter. It was a woman's writing,
and it said, Be at the gate at ten o'clock. Burn this letter.
At the bottom were the letters L-L.
Chapter 5 The Man on the Hill
Diary entry October 17.
It rained all day again today. I thought about the prisoner on the moor. Poor man.
Then I thought about the stranger on the hill. He was on the moor in this horrible weather too.
Why? Who was he?
In the evening I put on my coat and went back to the hill. There was no one there.
As I walked back Dr Mortimer drove past me. He stopped and I got into his carriage.
He's worried. His little dog is missing. He lost her on the moor yesterday.
I'm sorry for him. I hope he finds her.
I asked him about the letters L-L. He knows a woman in the town of Coom Tracy.
She's called Laura Lyons. Perhaps she wrote the letter. She's Franklin's daughter.
She married an artist called Lyons, but her father didn't like the man. Her father was right.
Lyons was a horrible man. He left her. A lot of people here help her. They sometimes give her a
little money. Sometimes Sir Charles gave her money too. After dinner I talked to Barrymore about
Selden. Barrymore took food for him three days ago, but he didn't see Selden's signal last night
or two nights ago. He doesn't know where Selden is now.
Barrymore surprised me because he knows about the stranger on the moor too. Selden told him.
The stranger lives in the prehistoric houses and a boy brings him food. Yes, I need to find out.
Why is someone living on the moor in this terrible weather?
The following morning I told Sir Henry about Laura Lyons and the letter. He was very interested
and very surprised. She wanted to meet him at the moor gate at ten o'clock,
but that's exactly where and when my uncle died, go to Coom Tracy, talk to this woman.
I arrived in Coom Tracy and I asked about Laura Lyons. People there knew her and it was easy to
find her house. She was surprised to see a stranger, but she asked me to come inside.
I'm here because I want to talk about Charles Baskerville, I said.
What can I tell you about him? He was a very kind man. He helped me a lot.
Did you write to him? She looked a little angry. I wrote to him once or twice to say thank you.
He gave me some money. He was very kind. Did you ask Sir Charles to meet you?
I asked. Really, Sir? That's a very strange question. Of course I didn't.
Oh, I think you did. In fact, you wrote to him on the day he died. You wanted to meet him
at the moor gate at ten o'clock. She went pale. Yes. Yes. I did write a letter,
but he burnt it. I know he did. How do you know about it? It was a private letter.
A piece of the letter didn't burn. The letters L.L. were on it.
Why did you want to meet him at that time and at that place?
He had plans. He wanted to go to London on May 5th. I needed his help before he went
to London. I was busy until ten o'clock that night. I had to meet him in the garden.
A woman can't go into a single man's house at night. It's not correct. That's why I wanted
to meet him by the gate. What did you do when you arrived? I didn't go. Before I went,
someone came to see me. He gave me the help that I needed. But please, I can't tell you his name.
Her story was probably true. But why did she go so pale? What did she want to hide?
I said goodbye, and Perkins drove me towards the hall.
On the way home, we saw Mr. Franklin in his garden. He invited me for a glass of wine. I sent Perkins home.
Franklin was an interesting man. He talked about the more and about the stars. He showed me his
telescope. I'm using this to watch the prisoner, he said. A young boy brings him food every day.
Look, Watson. There he is now, on that hill.
I looked over towards the hill. Yes. There was a boy there. He had a parcel with him.
I saw him go towards the prehistoric houses. Now I knew where the stranger was. I decided to
investigate. Well, I must go now, Mr. Franklin. Thank you for the wine. I enjoyed our interesting
conversation, too. I walked up the hill and looked at the prehistoric houses.
Only one had a roof. The man lived here, I was sure. I quietly went inside. It was empty.
The parcel of food was on the floor, and there was a small place for a bed in the corner.
I decided to wait for the stranger. I sat in the dark with my gun. I waited for a long time.
Then I heard someone outside. I sat very quietly. Then I heard a voice.
It's a beautiful evening, Watson. Why don't you come outside?
Holmes, it's you. I ran outside. I'm so happy to see you. But how did you know it was me in here?
You spoke to Cigarette over there. It says Brantley of Oxford Street on it.
How many men on Dartmoor buy their cigarettes in Oxford Street? But how did you find me?
I wasn't very careful that night on the hill. You saw me, I know.
But how did you know which house I was in? It was your boy. I saw him. But why are you living like this?
I'm investigating, but in secret. Cartwright's helping me. He's a very good boy.
Now, Watson, what do you know? Tell me. I told Holmes about Laura Lyons.
That's very interesting. I think Laura Lyons is in love with Stapleton. I also know that Miss
Stapleton isn't Mr. Stapleton's sister. She's his wife. So that's why Mr. Stapleton was angry
with St Henry that day. But why? Why are they pretending to be brother and sister?
He doesn't want people to know he's married. Stapleton's our man, Watson. Stapleton's our killer,
I'm sure. But are you sure she's his wife? Yes. Do you remember your first conversation?
He told you about his school in the north of England. A lot of the things he said do you
are false. But these were true. Yes. He's interested in butterflies and he was once a teacher.
Yes, three boys died at his school. With those facts, it was easy. I found the school. After that,
the rest was easy too. But he's married. What about poor Laura Lyons? Yes, poor woman.
She wants a divorce from her husband. I think she wants to marry Stapleton and she needs his
help with money. She doesn't know he's already married. We need to talk to her again. We need
to tell her. Now, Watson, let's go up to the hall. Baskerville is alone there and I don't like it.
Stapleton's a killer, Watson. A killer.
Suddenly, in the darkness, there was a terrible, low howl and it came from the mall. The hound,
cried Holmes. Oh no, Stapleton's out there. Then we heard a terrible scream. He's got Sir Henry.
Holmes quickly ran in the direction of the scream. I ran behind him. We stopped at the bottom of the hill,
but we couldn't see anything. Then I saw it. It was a man's body. He was faced down on the ground.
He was dead. Holmes lit a match. And in the light, we saw the dead man's jacket.
It was Sir Henry's jacket. The dead man was Sir Henry.
Oh no. Why did I leave Sir Henry alone today? Oh, why did I go to Coombe Tracy? Why did Sir Henry go
on to the mall alone? Holmes went over to Sir Henry's body. He turned it over. Then he shouted.
He's got a beard. This isn't Sir Henry. This is the prisoner Selden. Sir Henry is alive.
Of course. Sir Henry gave some clothes to Barrymore. Barrymore probably gave them to Selden.
That's why Selden's wearing Sir Henry's jacket.
Hello. Who's this? Said Holmes. Someone's coming. It's probably Stapleton. Be careful.
Stapleton arrived and looked at the body. Who's that? He said.
It's Selden, the prisoner from Prince Town. Stapleton's face was pale.
How horrible is he dead? Yes. He probably broke his neck. We were on the hill over there and we
heard a scream. We ran down here and found him. I heard a scream too. That's why I'm here.
I was worried about Sir Henry. I invited him to my house tonight, but he didn't come.
Did you hear any other sounds? No. Why? Oh, you know, people talk about the hound on the more.
What do you think, Mr. Holmes? I'm right, aren't I? You are Sherlock Holmes. Well, what do you think?
Yes, you're right. But no, we didn't hear anything. We found this poor man here. I think he fell and broke his neck.
That's what I think. Stapleton relaxed.
I'm happy you're here, he said. Now you can help Dr. Watson with this problem.
I'm sorry, I can't, said Holmes. I still have a case in London. I need to go back there.
We covered the body. Stapleton went back to Merippet House and Holmes and I went back to the hall.
We are near to the end now, said Holmes. Did you see Stapleton's face? He was very shocked
when he saw Selden. I'm sorry, he knows I'm here, but there's nothing we can do. Now,
how can we catch him, Watson? How? Let's talk to the police tonight. We know he's our man.
Proof, Watson. We need proof. All we have is a body and a dog. There's no connection with Stapleton.
The police need proof. But there's Sir Charles's death. Yes, but again we need proof. You and I
know that he died of fright, but where's the proof? No, Watson. We must wait.
Just one more thing, said Holmes. When we arrive at Baskerville Hall,
don't tell Sir Henry about the Hound. Sir Henry was pleased to see Holmes,
but my first job was to see Barrymore and his wife. I told them about Selden. Mrs. Barrymore
cried and cried. To her, he wasn't a horrible man. He was her little brother. I was sorry for her.
Then we told Sir Henry about Selden, but we didn't talk about the Hound.
I stayed in the house all morning, said Sir Henry. It was very boring. I got a message from
Stapleton. He invited me to dinner tonight, but I did as you asked. I didn't go out.
Selden had your jacket, said Holmes. We thought you were dead. It was a terrible shock. I imagined
Barrymore gave it to Selden. Yes, probably, said Sir Henry. Now Holmes, have you got any news for us?
Things are going well. I think we're near the end.
It was very late, but we went into the dining room for dinner. Holmes looked at the paintings on the wall.
He smiled. Yes, things are going very well. These pictures are very interesting. I think some of them
are very good. That's a Reynolds, and this one here is a Nella. Are they all family portraits?
Yes, they are, said Sir Henry. Barrymore's teaching me all their names. This is Sir William
Baskerville. He was a politician. This is Admiral Baskerville. He went to the West Indies.
What about this one here? That's the evil Sir Hugo. It's strange because he doesn't look evil,
but the date is on the back, 1647.
After dinner, Sir Henry went to his room. Holmes looked again at the picture of Sir Hugo.
Do you see it, Watson?
I looked at the man with a large hat. He had long, curly hair, and a thin face.
He looks a little bit like Sir Henry, I said. Holmes got onto a chair. He put his hands over the hat and the long hair.
Suddenly, I saw it. Stapleton. Stapleton is a Baskerville.
Our first piece of proof was there on the wall.
Chapter 6 – Catching the Killer
The next morning, Holmes told the police about Selden's body.
Then, at breakfast, he told us his plan.
Today is a big day for all of us, but I need your help, Sir Henry. This is very, very important.
You must do what I say, but you mustn't ask any questions. Can you do that?
Yes, I can. Good.
You've got an invitation for dinner with the Stapleton's tonight. Is that right?
Yes, and Watson's coming. Do you want to come too?
No, I'm sorry. Watson and I must go to London.
Sir Henry looked worried.
But these days, I don't like being alone here.
Trust me. Go to dinner with the Stapleton's. Tell them that we're very sorry, but we've got
important business in London. Please give them that message. When you arrive at Mary Pit House,
send Perkins home. Tell the Stapleton's that you want to walk home.
Walk across the moor at night alone.
Yes, but don't worry. Go straight to the hall. Stay on the path.
We said goodbye to Sir Henry. Perkins took us to the station, then went home to the hall.
Young Cartwright was at the station. There's a telegram for you, sir.
Thank you, Gardwright.
Holmes looked at the message. It said, arrive 540. Lestrade.
Good. It's from Detective Lestrade. Now, Stapleton needs proof we're in London.
He mustn't think we're here. Cartwright takes the train to London. When you arrive,
send this telegram to Sir Henry.
I left my diary in my room. I need it urgently. Send it to me at Baker Street as soon as possible.
Holmes. Do you understand? Yes, sir. Watson, come with me. I want to talk to Laura Lyons.
Mrs. Lyons was surprised to see us. There are some facts missing from your story, Mrs. Lyons.
We need more information, said Holmes. I told your friend everything. Not everything.
You asked Sir Charles to meet you at the gate at 10 o'clock, the time and place of his death.
What's the connection? There isn't a connection.
This is a case of murder, Mrs. Lyons. The case involves your friend, Mr. Stapleton, and his wife.
His wife? But Mr. Stapleton's single. He lives with his sister. I'm sorry. But that's not true.
She's really his wife. Here's a photograph of them from four years ago. On the back, it says,
Mr. and Mrs. Vandellur. But you can see the people in the picture are the Stapleton's.
Poor Laura Lyons was very shocked. Mr. Holmes, this man asked me to marry him. He lied to me.
He told me to write that letter. He is an evil man. Ask me anything you want.
Did Stapleton dictate that letter? Yes, every word of it. With Sir Charles's money,
he said a divorce from my husband was possible. Then he could marry me. I believed him.
After I wrote the letter, he told me not to go to Baskerville Hall. He told me not to meet Sir Charles.
He wanted to give me the money himself. He didn't want Sir Charles to give me money.
Then, the next day, you read about Sir Charles's death in the newspaper. Is that right?
Yes. Stapleton told me not to say anything about the letter. He said it looked bad for me. After that,
I didn't trust him. You're very lucky. Stapleton's an evil man.
Later, Holmes and I went back to the station. The London train arrived and a small, strong-looking man got off the train.
He walked towards us.
Anything good? He said.
Very, very good, Lestrade said Holmes. Let's talk about it over dinner.
Holmes told Lestrade the whole story, but he didn't talk about his plans. Finally, I asked about them.
What are your plans? We need to know Holmes. We need to know what to do.
Don't worry. Trust me, he said.
After dinner, we took a cab towards Meripit House. When we arrived, Holmes finally gave us some instructions.
We were about 200 yards from the house.
Be very quiet. Walk on Tiptoe. Let's hide here. Now, Watson, you know this house. There's a light in those
windows there. What's that room? That's the kitchen. And the windows there are the dining room.
Good. The curtains are open. Go quietly. Look inside. Tell us what you see.
I walked down the path very quietly. I looked in through the dining room window.
There were two men inside, Stapleton and Sir Henry. Stapleton's wife wasn't there. I watched them.
Then Stapleton went out of the room. Henry sat down. He looked very pale.
I heard a door open and the sound of shoes on the path. It was Stapleton.
He went into a small building near the house. I heard some sounds inside. Then he came out again.
He was only in the building for a minute. I quickly went back to Holmes and the straight. I told them about it.
But where's Stapleton's wife? Said Holmes. There are only two lights in the house. One in the kitchen,
but only the servants are in there. The other is in the dining room.
Only Sir Henry and Stapleton are in there. Where is she?
I don't know. I said. But look. Look at the grimp and mire. The fog's coming and it's coming towards us.
It's moving very quickly. This is bad, Watson. I don't like it. The fog is the only thing which
can stop our plan. Then Holmes said almost to himself,
come away from Meribith House, Sir Henry. Come out soon.
We waited and waited. It was now very foggy. There was no sound from the house.
Then suddenly we heard something. Said Holmes. It's Sir Henry. Here he is at last.
Sir Henry passed us. He walked quickly and he looked worried.
Then we heard another sound. It was the sound of feet. But the feet weren't those of a man.
They were those of a gigantic animal. Can you hear it? There's something there. Something's
coming towards us. Look out. It's coming. Lestrade screamed and I took out my gun.
Then out of the fog came a horrible animal. It was a gigantic black dog.
But this wasn't an ordinary dog. It was a horrible gigantic hound.
It was the hound of the Baskervilles. There was green light around its mouth. In its eyes there
was green fire. We were terrified.
It's chasing Sir Henry. Said Holmes. Your gun. Kill it.
I fired my gun. There was a howl. The animal was hurt. We ran towards the sound. The gigantic
hound was dead. Sir Henry was on the ground, terrified and pale. But he was alive.
I gave him some brandy. Thank you, Watson. He said, but what was that animal? What was it?
Its eyes and its horrible mouth. They were green.
I went to look at the animal. Around its eyes and its mouth, I saw something green. It was
phosphorus. It's the hound of the Baskervilles. But now it's dead. You're free. Said Holmes.
The green you saw was phosphorus. Phosphorus glows in the dark. Now, I'm sorry Sir Henry,
but we must hurry. We haven't got a lot of time and we need to find our man.
We went back towards Merepit House. The door was open. We ran inside.
Then we heard a noise. It came from a room upstairs. We ran upstairs in the direction of the noise.
Holmes opened the door of the room. There was Stapleton's wife. She was on the floor.
She had a scuff round her mouth.
Good God. Said Holmes. Quick. Help her.
Thank you. She said, is he safe? Is Sir Henry safe?
Yes. He's safe. I said. And the hound. Where is it?
Don't worry. It's dead. Said Holmes.
Thank God. But find him. Find my husband. He's a horrible man. He's cruel and evil.
He keeps his hound in the middle of the grimp and mire. That's where he is. Go and find him.
But it's impossible with this fog. How can we find him?
It's foggy, you say. That's good news. He ran to the center of the mire before the fog came down.
He was able to get in there. But he can't get out now. He knows the way to the middle of the
mire because of the rocks and plants. But in the fog, he can't get out. You've got him.
And now I'm coming to the end of my strange story.
The next morning it wasn't foggy. We went to the grimp and mire. We knew it was dangerous to
cross it. But Mrs. Stapleton gave us directions and we followed them carefully.
The path went left and then right. It was difficult to follow. Any mistake was certain death for us.
Then suddenly we saw something in the mire. It was a shoe.
Holmes took a stick and got the shoe. There was a label Meyers Toronto inside.
It was Sir Henry's missing shoe.
Stapleton used this shoe, said Holmes. His dog needed a scent to follow Sir Henry.
This shoe gave the animal the scent.
We arrived at the center of the mire. Stapleton wasn't there. But this was where the hound lived.
There was some food and the dead body of a black and white dog.
Look! A dead dog, said Holmes. Dr. Mortimer's dog.
Poor animal and poor Mortimer. He loved his dog. Do you know Watson? I think Stapleton's dead.
I think he died in the mire. This shoe is our proof. And this place is where Stapleton's hound lived.
We all heard the sound of the hound on the moor. Stapleton could hide the hound,
but he couldn't keep it quiet. I agreed with Holmes. Stapleton was probably dead.
Back in Baker Street, London, it was the end of November. It was a cold, foggy night.
Holmes and I were in the sitting room by the fire.
It was good to see Sir Henry and Dr. Mortimer again. Wasn't it Holmes? I'm pleased they came this afternoon.
Yes. I didn't know they were in London. It was good of them to come.
It was a very interesting case, the case of their hound of the Baskavilles.
Yes. But there are one or two things that I still don't understand.
Let's go back to the beginning, said Holmes.
First of all, the picture in the dining room. It showed us that Stapleton was a Baskaville.
He was the son of Roger Baskaville, Sir Charles' third brother.
Roger died in South America. We all thought Roger wasn't married, but that wasn't true.
He got married and had a son. His son's name was also Roger, our man Stapleton.
Years later, young Roger got married. He married Beryl Garcia, a beautiful woman from Costa Rica.
Roger was a bad man, like his father. He stole a lot of money. The police wanted to talk to him,
so he changed his name to Vandellur. Mr. and Mrs. Vandellur escaped to England.
Here, they started their school in the north. Then, when the three schoolboys died, the Vandellurs
changed their name again to Stapleton. They went to Dartmoor.
Stapleton knew he was a Baskaville. He knew Sir Charles was rich.
He decided to kill Sir Charles. Beryl pretended to be Stapleton's sister,
and they bought a house near Baskaville Hall. Here, Stapleton became friends with Sir Charles
Baskaville. Sir Charles told him about the hound of the Baskavilles. Stapleton knew that Sir Charles
was afraid of the hound, and he knew that Sir Charles had a weak heart.
This gave Stapleton the idea. He went to London and bought a gigantic dog. It was strong and
savage. He took it to Dartmoor in secret. As we know, it lived at the Grimp and Meyer.
This is why people sometimes heard the hound. The idea of the phosphorus was very clever.
The dog looked evil. It looked supernatural.
Sometimes, Stapleton took the dog onto the moor at night. People saw it, and began to talk about
the curse of the hound of the Baskavilles. Stapleton really wanted Sir Charles to see the hound,
but Sir Charles never went onto the moor at night. He was afraid. So, Stapleton asked Beryl to help
him, but she refused. That's when Laura Lyons comes into the story.
Stapleton became friends with her. She thought he was a single man. She wanted to divorce her
horrible husband and marry Stapleton. Then, Stapleton heard about Sir Charles's trip to London.
He worked very fast. He told Laura to write to Sir Charles. He told her to ask for a meeting.
He gave the letter to Sir Charles. Then, he made up a story and told Laura not to go.
That night, Stapleton went to the Grimp and Meyer. He painted the hound's eyes and mouth with the
phosphorus. Then, he took the dog to the moor gate. Here, it jumped over the gate and chased Sir Charles.
Sir Charles died of fright. The dog didn't run on the path. It ran next to the path.
That's why there were no footprints until the end. Then, Stapleton called the dog and he took it back
to the mire. He was very clever. There was no proof. His wife and Laura Lyons thought something was
wrong, but they didn't have any proof. At first, Stapleton probably didn't know anything
about Sir Henry. But after Sir Charles's death, Dr Mortimer told him. He told him about the Canadian
air. Dr Mortimer came to London and Stapleton followed with his wife. He couldn't leave her on
Dartmoor. He didn't trust her. He locked her in the hotel room. He followed Dr Mortimer
every day. He wore a big black beard. It was a false beard. That day, he followed Dr Mortimer
here to Baker Street. Then, he followed him to the station. He saw Sir Henry and the doctor go to
the hotel. Stapleton probably wanted to kill Sir Henry here in London. When he saw us,
he changed his plans. His wife knew about his plans. She wanted to tell Sir Henry,
but she was afraid of her husband. She cut words from the front page of the time's newspaper to
make a letter. A servant gave it to Sir Henry. Stapleton needed something with Sir Henry's
scent on it. He needed it for the dog. He paid a servant in the hotel and the servant stole the
shoe. But it was a new shoe. Sir Henry's scent wasn't on it. That's why the second shoe was missing.
When Stapleton heard we were on the case, he went back to Dartmoor. That's where our story started.
There's one thing I still don't understand, Holmes. Everyone knew Stapleton. Everyone knew his name.
He couldn't suddenly become a Baskerville. Mrs. Stapleton told me he had many plans.
One was to go back to South America. He didn't need to be in England to get the money. There were
other plans too. But you can be sure Watson Stapleton knew how to get his money. He was an evil man.
Now, Watson, let's talk about something different. I've got tickets for a show.
Let's have dinner at Marcini's, then go to the theatre. Can you be ready in half an hour?